+++
date = '2024-12-27T20:10:40-08:00'
draft = false
title = 'Week 2024 52'
tags = ['management']
+++
This Week's Challenges: 
- [Diving into Static Site Generation with Hugo]({{< relref "week-2024-52.md#static-site-gen" >}}) (Engineering)
- [Navigating Team Capacity Planning]({{< relref "week-2024-52.md#team-capacity" >}}) (Management)
<!--more-->

## Diving into Static Site Generation with Hugo {#static-site-gen}

This week, I embarked on a new adventure: exploring static site generators. I chose Hugo, a popular and powerful option, and quickly realized it would be a bit of a learning curve.

Initially, I spent a good amount of time familiarizing myself with Hugo's system, its template engine, and the available themes. The learning curve was steeper than expected, but I eventually settled on the Ananke theme, which I found both visually appealing and easy to customize.

This experience brought back memories of my earlier web development days. I've worked with various CMS and frameworks like Joomla, Drupal, MediaWiki, and Django. While Hugo is a different beast, its template engine reminded me a lot of Django's, which I found surprisingly comforting.

This week's challenge has been a valuable learning experience. I've gained a practical understanding of static site generation and discovered a new tool that I can potentially use for future projects. I'm excited to continue exploring Hugo and see what other creative possibilities it offers.


Key Takeaways:

- Static site generators like Hugo offer a unique approach to web development, sort of paradigm shift if you will. I'd compare this to compiled vs. interpreted programming languages.
- There is nothing more exciting than learning a new tool or framework and finally conquering the mountain. Now you're standing tall on the summit, proud of yourself. We all know this feeling when you're on top of new technology, looking around from the height of the mountain.. [Mountain Stupid](https://rationalwiki.org/wiki/Dunning%E2%80%93Kruger_effect).
- The experience of working with Hugo has reinforced my understanding of text-based template engines and web development principles, which is great for future projects. Even for some sorts of pure utilitatian sites like project documentation.

See also:
- [Hugo - static site generator]({{< relref "/engineering/hugo" >}})

## Navigating Team Capacity Planning {#team-capacity}

This week was pretty low, but still presented an interesting managerial challenge: the quarterly team capacity estimation meeting. Together with Technical Project Managers (TPMs) and engineering leadership, we meticulously planned for the upcoming quarter's workload.

The core of our planning process involved a relatively straightforward calculation. Given a three-month quarter, we factored in six sprints per engineer, accounting for planned vacations. From this total, we allocated time for essential activities:

- Operational On-Call Duties: 10% of team time, based on historical data.
- "Run the Business" Activities: 10% of team time, also based on past trends.
- Technical Debt Remediation: 20% of team time, a percentage determined by the current depth of our technical debt backlog.

With these allocations in place, the remaining 60% of team time was dedicated to achieving our Product OKRs.

This exercise underscored the importance of data-driven decision-making in capacity planning. By analyzing historical data and considering the current state of our technical debt, we were able to allocate resources effectively and ensure a balanced workload for our team.

Key Takeaways:

- Accurate capacity planning is crucial for successful project execution. Generally speaking, the planning is a bit underrated in the Agile world, which makes it difficult to join development everyday Scrum process with mid-term predictable deliverables.
- Data-driven decision-making is essential for informed resource allocation. And this is where all those formal processes (like opening bugs and incidents) start to make sense, since now we can use JIRA to actually distinguish how much time the team spent in each bucket.
- Balancing operational responsibilities, technical debt, and product delivery is key to long-term team success.

See also:
- [Capacity Planning]({{< relref "/management/capacity-planning" >}})
